{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2867
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;
\f3\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Oblique;\f4\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f5\fnil\fcharset77 ZapfDingbatsITC;
\f6\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-BoldOblique;\f7\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;\f8\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-BoldMT;
\f9\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Bold;\f10\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red60\green60\blue62;
\red22\green25\blue31;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c30196\c30196\c30980;
\cssrgb\c11373\c12941\c16078;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww19560\viewh18040\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa266\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs50\fsmilli25333 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Life On Purpose
\f1\b0\fs24 \

\f0\b\fs50\fsmilli25333 Manifesting with the Goddess Triad
\f1\b0\fs24 \

\f0\b\fs50\fsmilli25333 Mexico Retreat - April 2023
\f1\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa266\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs40 \cf0 Life is a Gift ~ Yoga is Life\'92s Blessing
\f1\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa266\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs32 \cf0 Kula: Clan, community, the people you choose to share life with. A community of choice!
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li34\fi51\ri601\partightenfactor0

\f3\i\fs42\fsmilli21320 \cf0 Welcome to 
\fs45\fsmilli22660 th
\fs42\fsmilli21320 e unfolding journey of creating a life on purpose! 
\f2\i0\fs32 We\'92re about to step through a portal where we 
\f4 \'85 
\f3\i pause 
\f2\i0 ... and enter the midline of deeper Self knowing through Svadhaya \'96 Self-study. The relationship between the three Shakti Deities: Kali, Saraswati, and Lakshmi will guide us into our own inner landscape:\'a0
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li552\fi-553\partightenfactor0

\f5\fs32 \cf0 \uc0\u10146 
\f4  
\f2 Revelation \'96 the gift of Kali\'a0
\f1\fs24 \

\f5\fs32 \uc0\u10146 
\f4  
\f2 Reflection \'96 the gift of Saraswati\'a0
\f1\fs24 \

\f5\fs32 \uc0\u10146 
\f4  
\f2 Recognition \'96 the gift of Lakshmi\'a0
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li34\ri138\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs32 \cf0 Our personal journey will include practices of yoga that embrace the teachings, metaphors and embodiment of the Goddesses viewed through the lens of 
\fs42\fsmilli21320 Shakta Tantra
\fs32 .\'a0
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa266\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs32 \cf0 Kali, Saraswati and Lakshmi are in a relationship. Their distinctive roles create a MAHA \'96 a great collectivity with each informing the other. Their metaphor and teachings invite us to receive our own gifts as a reflection of the Divine.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li4\fi41\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs32 \cf0 In all of the Tantric lineages, 
\fs42\fsmilli21320 The ONE is seen as two ~
\f1\fs24 \

\f2\fs32 Pure Consciousness and the Power that brings Consciousness into manifestation. Through meditation and direct experience of the subtle energies that flowed through them, the ancient yogis came to know Pure Consciousness as the Divine Masculine and named it Shiva. Likewise, they experienced the power of that Awareness as the Divine Feminine and named it Shakti. Shakti is said to weave the strands of our personal and universal experiences through space and time. Interestingly, modern quantum physics has verified what ancient yogis saw and felt as a subtle vibratory energy as the foundation of everything that is manifest in our reality. This manifest energy, called Shakti, is not just the fabric of our bodies and our world, it is the power of the Divine Feminine itself.\'a0
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi-1\ri43\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs42\fsmilli21320 \cf0 The Shakta Tantra tradition
\fs32 , dating back to the 4
\fs19\fsmilli9600 \super th 
\fs32 \nosupersub and 5
\fs19\fsmilli9600 \super th 
\fs32 \nosupersub centuries, was revolutionary to the traditional path of yoga, which sees the material world as a sort of bondage and the yoga practices as a ladder to climb culminating in union with The ONE. Shakta Tantra sparked a radical shift in this traditional vertical model of enlightenment by removing the hierarchy. The Goddess practices are seen as more of a horizontal model of yoga that radically affirm the gift of life. The Shakta lineage holds The Goddess as the source of life AND the expression of life.\'a0
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li4\ri172\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs32 \cf0 An 
\fs42\fsmilli21320 Invitation to curiosity, consciousness, and creativity
\fs32 , the exploration of Shakta Tantra yoga reveals a gateway that opens to the Infinite and then guides the way back to living fully actualized lives. There is a bridge to be built, a kind of yoga - a connection/union to be made, in which we will begin to see the yogic perspective of awakening or enlightenment shift.\'a0
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li34\fi-35\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs42\fsmilli21320 \cf0 Shakta Tantra philosophy teaches us:\'a0
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li552\fi-553\ri539\partightenfactor0

\f5\fs32 \cf0 \uc0\u10146 
\f4  
\f2 Self-actualization is NO longer a singular attainment; it\'92s a process rather than a goal.\'a0
\f1\fs24 \

\f5\fs32 \uc0\u10146 
\f4  
\f2 Achievement gives way to a life of process, an evolving awakening.\'a0
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li2\fi549\ri172\partightenfactor0

\f5\fs32 \cf0 \uc0\u10146 
\f4  
\f2 This horizontal model holds that no one person can hold all the light, it\'92s shared!\'a0
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li2\fi549\ri172\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs42\fsmilli21320 \cf0 The goal is to see that the 
\f3\i many are One
\f2\i0 , 
\fs32 not as a way to make it back to Oneness. It\'92s about seeing how the One empowers all by being in all; drawing us from Oneness into Connectivity!\'a0
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li4\fi26\ri306\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs32 \cf0 Shaktas honor the Divine Mother as the wellspring that brings Awareness to life. Because the Divine Goddess has taken form in us as us, we possess the power to desire through the power to feel along with the power to think and obtain wisdom so that we better wield the power to create our life as beautifully as WE can imagine!\'a0
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi5\ri85\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs42\fsmilli21320 \cf0 Your personal journey begins NOW
\fs48 !
\fs32 \'a0
\f1\fs24 \

\f2\fs32 This retreat will engage the Divine Triad of Shakti expressed as Kali, Saraswati, and Lakshmi. We embrace them not as singular sources of Shakti, but how the triad is expressed in relationships. With the Goddesses as our guides, the course has three main objectives:\'a0
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li552\fi-553\ri153\partightenfactor0

\f5\fs32 \cf0 \uc0\u10146 
\f4  
\f0\b The Revelation that the Universal, the ONE has chosen to become a diversity
\f2\b0 . The world is the revealed form of the Divine which means The Divine is hiding in plain sight and 
\f3\i you are the revelation which you seek.\'a0
\f1\i0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li552\fi-553\ri393\partightenfactor0

\f5\fs32 \cf0 \uc0\u10146 
\f4  
\f0\b The Reflective process of \'93finding myself\'94 means we must create a relationship of reflection.
\f2\b0  We must put ourselves before ourselves; like standing in front of a mirror. This relationship creates a receptivity for receiving the One in ourselves by seeing it in others and all of life\'92s experiences.\'a0
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li552\fi-553\ri38\partightenfactor0

\f5\fs32 \cf0 \uc0\u10146 
\f4  
\f0\b The Recognition of our identity as Divine defines 
\f6\i creating a life on purpose 
\f0\i0 as the opportunity of embracing the ability to build a bridge.
\f2\b0  Here, we align with Creative Source Energy and then signify ourselves by bringing our unique vibration into the world in a way that is bold and humbly empowered.\'a0
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs42\fsmilli21320 \cf0 Thank you for choosing into this intentional journey\'a0
\f1\fs24 \

\f2\fs42\fsmilli21320 to create a life of value, joy and purpose!\'a0
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa266\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs42\fsmilli21333 \cf0 Kali ~ Revelation
\f7\fs48 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa266\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs32 \cf0 The primordial revelation of seeing the Divine as woven into the fabric of our Being. The Dark One. The organic primordial energy.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa266\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs32 \cf0 Revelation:
\f2\b0  The gift is you. The Immortal has chosen to become mortal. It is originally perfect and so are you!
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\b\fs32 Radical Affirmation:
\f2\b0  Everything we are, we must receive and accept as Grace. We must learn to evolve the aspects of Being that we perceive as \'93bad, ugly, unworthy\'94
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\b\fs32 Invitation:
\f2\b0  Savoring the experience \'96 the Madhuriya/the sweetness of what IS
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\b\fs32 Mantra:
\f2\b0  
\f3\i Om hreem kleem Kalyai Namah
\f1\i0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa266\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs32 \cf0 Om: the primordial creative sound at the heart of all sound
\f1\fs24 \

\f2\fs32 Hreem: the power that manifests the Universe and the Body
\f1\fs24 \

\f2\fs32 Kleem: the seed mantra of Kali \'96 the Goddess of embracing the gift of embodiment
\f1\fs24 \

\f2\fs32 Namah: A deep bow of reverence
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f7\b\fs48 \cf0 \cb3 \
\
\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf0 Garshana: The
\f8  
\f0 Ayurvedic dry massage 
\f2\b0 \cf4 (can use dry brush, silk glove, dry wash cloth)
\f7\b\fs48 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa373\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs32 \cf0 Some benefits of regular dry skin brushing:
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f2\fs32 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Exfoliate dead skin.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Stimulates your lymphatic system\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Helps to reduce cellulite\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Unclogs pores and decongest skin\cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa200\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Detoxifies the body and strengthens the immune system\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 \cb3 Abhyanga: The Ayurvedic Oil Massage
\f1\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa200\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs32 \cf0 Some benefits associated with regular oil massage:
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0
\f2\fs32 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Rejuvenation and Increased circulation, especially to nerve endings\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Toning of the muscles and the whole physiology\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Calming for the nerves\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Lubrication of the joints\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Increased mental alertness\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Improved elimination of impurities from the body\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Softer, smoother skin\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Increased levels of stamina through the day\cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa373\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Better, deeper sleep at night\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa266\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs42\fsmilli21333 \cf0 \cb3 Saraswati ~ Reflection
\f7\fs48 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa266\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf0 Reflective Consciousness
\f2\b0 : Saras = current and essence. Paradox: Essence is unchanging; current is always changing. Essence is diamond/certain and Current is lightning bolt/playful dynamic and never itself but for a moment.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa213\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs32 \cf0 Radical Affirmation:
\f2\b0  Everything we need, we already possess = Reflect upon the gifts that have been given\'a0
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa266\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs32 \cf0 Invitation:
\f2\b0  See how the Divine is seen indirectly through reflection. The light of the One fractalized into all that IS. Become intoxicated on the Soma of knowing that you are never separate from the One.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa266\partightenfactor0

\f9\b\fs28 \cf5 \cb3 Mantra:
\f10\b0  
\f3\i\fs32 Om aim hrim Saraswati Namah
\f1\i0\fs24 \cf0 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa266\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs32 \cf0 Om: the primordial creative sound at the heart of all sound
\f1\fs24 \

\f2\fs32 Aim (ayim): the seed mantra of Saraswati \'96 the Goddess of Creation, vibration, sound, & pattern
\f1\fs24 \

\f2\fs32 Hrim (hreem): the power that manifests the Universe and the Body
\f1\fs24 \

\f2\fs32 Namah: A deep bow of reverence
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa266\partightenfactor0

\f7\b\fs48 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa266\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs42\fsmilli21333 \cf0 \cb3 Lakshmi ~ Recognition
\f7\fs48 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa266\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf0 Recognition:
\f2\b0 \'a0 Beauty and Culture; merging both the natural and cultural in one place. Unity within diversity.\'a0
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\b\fs32 Radical Affirmation:
\f2\b0  everything we experience has to become a process of affirmation. We\'92re no longer only looking toward joy and light and good as affirmation. We also learn to include ALL gifts of embodiment in the YES of life. Then decide how to create yoga from those experiences.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa213\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs32 \cf0 Invitation:
\f2\b0 \'a0 Create \'93honey\'94 out of all of life\'92s experiences so that the offering you make comes from a place of intoxicating play and allows the jewel of your heart to be expressed, received and valued.\'a0
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa266\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs32 \cf5 \cb3 Mantra:
\f2\b0  
\f3\i Om shreem maha lakshmyai namah
\f1\i0\fs24 \cf0 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa266\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs32 \cf0 Om: the primordial creative sound at the heart of all sound
\f1\fs24 \

\f2\fs32 Shrim (shreem): the seed mantra of Lakshmi \'96 the Goddess of Creative Expression & Personal\'a0 \'a0 Power
\f1\fs24 \

\f2\fs32 Hreem: the power that manifests the Universe and the Body
\f1\fs24 \

\f2\fs32 Namah: A deep bow of reverence
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa266\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs32 \cf0 Note from Tiff ~
\f1\fs24 \

\f2\fs32 I humbly bow at the feet of my teacher, Douglas Brooks, for sharing what he learned from his teacher Apa. I also credit Sally Kempton for all she has shared and set forth for the upliftment of all. Christopher Walis is also my profound teacher in the history and practices of Non-dual Shaivite Tantra. The wisdom that is the backbone of this offering I make to you came from true masters.\'a0 Held in the Grace of how I embody and share what is the truth of my spiritual practices, I offer all I know and love.\'a0 May you make it yours and may the wise Goddesses forever unfold within your own heart.\'a0
\f1\fs24 \
}