{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2867
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;
\f3\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Oblique;\f4\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red63\green108\blue175;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c30980\c50588\c74118;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww21660\viewh17740\viewkind0
\deftab720

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trmarl1460 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth12453\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl153 \clpadr153 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs53\fsmilli26667 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Samudra Shakti
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs53\fsmilli26667 OBSERVATIONS & ADJUSTMENTS
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs40 \cf0 10 Hour Intenstive
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs40 \cf0 With
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs40 Tiffany Wood
\f1\fs24 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trmarl1460 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth12453\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf3 \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl153 \clpadr153 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs106\fsmilli53333 \cf0 Anusara Yoga
\f1\fs24 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trmarl1460 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth12453\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl153 \clpadr153 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs58\fsmilli29333 \cf0 Universal Principles of Alignment
\f1\fs24 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trmarl1460 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth12453\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl153 \clpadr153 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 Tiffany Wood
\f1\b0\fs24 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trmarl1460 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth12453\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl153 \clpadr153 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trmarl1460 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth12453\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl153 \clpadr153 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 September 2023
\f1\b0\fs24 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth12453\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl153 \clpadr153 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 Anusara Yoga, treats yoga as an art no less than a science and teaches not according to rules or concrete instructions, but according to principles. A rule dictates a particular way to do something. \'a0 A principle relies on experience revealing that \'93things 
\f3\i usually
\f0\i0  go better\'94 if you do it a certain way.
\f1\fs24 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa266\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs64 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 Principles of Anusara Yoga 
\fs48 \'a0(Nutshell)
\f4 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa266\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf0 Two Energies\'a0
\f1\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa266\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 Consciousness \'96 as both inner awareness and outward physical manifestation \'96 is experienced as a pulsation of two complementary energies:
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi960\sa266\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs37\fsmilli18667 \cf0 Muscular Energy:
\fs29\fsmilli14667  inward-turning, contracting, centering
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs37\fsmilli18667 Organic Energy:
\fs29\fsmilli14667  outward-turning, expansive, expressive, creative
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa266\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 The essence of these two energies is Shakti, which we experience in awareness, breath and physical movement. The pulsation of these energies is the pulsation of the one Divine Heart.\'a0
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 The play of these two complementary energies in the body manifests as currents that flow according to the following principles, for the health of the whole, the embodied self:\'a0
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa266\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs48 \cf0 Three Focal Points
\f0\b0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \'a0
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa266\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 A Focal Point is a center of power or Shakti/prana\'a0
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa266\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs37\fsmilli18667 \cf0 Muscular Energy- 
\fs29\fsmilli14667 draws prana toward the center, integrating the body
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa266\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 \'a0
\fs37\fsmilli18667 Organic Energy
\fs29\fsmilli14667 - expands and radiates prana away from the center, extending through the limbs.\'a0
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 One Focal Point is dominant or forms the energetic center of one\'92s posture at a time, according to the body\'92s relationship to gravity through its foundation.\'a0 The dominant focal point will be the most weight bearing and closest to the earth.\'a0
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa266\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs48 \cf0 Two Spirals
\f0\b0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \'a0
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa266\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 The Spirals describe the balanced interplay of Muscular and Organic energy along the arms and legs that aligns and protects the joints, and integrates the actions of the limbs with one\'92s energetic core or center \'96 the central axis of the spine.\'a0
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa266\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs48 \cf0 Seven Loops
\f0\b0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \'a0
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa266\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 The Loops describe the balanced relationship of the flow of Muscular and Organic energy within and between seven sections of the body, and governs extension through the central core of the body, particularly in terms of the circulation of prana in both asana and pranayama\'a0
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa266\qc\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs69\fsmilli34667 \cf0 And 
\fs74\fsmilli37333 Above
\fs69\fsmilli34667  All:
\f0\b0\fs64 \'a0
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa266\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs48 \cf0 The Heart
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa266\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 Yoga arises from the inspiration to become whole, to participate in the higher energy, awareness and purpose of life. This is the deepest desire of the heart.\'a0
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Your feeling or highest wish is the true power behind your alignment, expression and experience of the pose, and your experience of the highest Self through yoga. To realize, experience and express that divine Self in one\'92s own life, and to become established in that awareness, now and always, is the fulfillment of the heart.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa266\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs37\fsmilli18667 \cf0 The world is nothing more Than Beauty\'92s chance to show Herself. And what are we? \'96 Nothing more than Beauty\'92s chance to see Herself. For if Beauty were not seeking Herself, We would not exist.\'a0
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa266\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf0 ~The Inner Treasure, Jonathan Star
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa266\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 For this reason, our purpose and instruction in teaching and practicing Anusara Yoga is to evoke, express and celebrate these deeper, more expansive and inclusive experiences of our own self. If we go only so far as thinking in terms of physical alignments and actions, we may get stuck in our \'91smallest\'92 experience of self.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa266\qc\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs74\fsmilli37333 \cf0 Universal Principles of Alignment\'a0
\f1\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa266\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 The UPA\'92s organize the various principles of action into five steps that can be applied to the lower and upper body. The five steps to the Universal Principles of Alignment are as follows:
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \'a01. Setting the Foundation in Mind and Body \uc0\u8722  Opening to Grace- Expansion
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \'a02. Muscular Energy / Engagement that creates stability in the joints- Contraction
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 3. Inner Spiral \uc0\u8722  Refines alignment by positioning or placing the bones -Expansion
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 4. Outer Spiral \uc0\u8722  Refines alignment by positioning the bones, balancing the aligning actions of the Inner Spiral -Contraction
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 5. Organic Energy / Extension or Expansion
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa266\qc\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs74\fsmilli37333 \cf0 Principles of Action:\'a0
\f1\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa266\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs48 \cf0 Muscular and Organic Energy
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa266\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs37\fsmilli18667 \cf0 Integrative energy \'96 Muscular Energy: 
\f0\b0\fs29\fsmilli14667 a current of energy that firms inward from the periphery toward the core. In its simplest sense, Muscular Energy is that which firms the muscles at work so that they draw close to the bone with a feeling of strength, support and assurance \'96 a very different quality from \'91tightening\'92 or flexing the muscles for show.
\f1\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs37\fsmilli18667 Expansive energy \'96 Organic Energy: 
\f0\b0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \'a0a current of energy that expands, flows and radiates outward from the core, bringing about extension with a feeling of lightness, freedom, suppleness and ease. We usually associate \'91stretching\'92 with the development of Organic Energy, but the qualities associated with the expression of Organic Energy in a yoga pose set it apart from the experience of just a good stretch
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa266\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 The point of yoga is to bring these two energies into balance. Each is distinct from the other, having its own distinct qualities.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa266\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs37\fsmilli18667 \cf0 Spanda - Pulsation of expansion and contraction
\f1\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa266\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 All the UPA\'92s work together to create harmonious flow of pulsation within and without. This pulsation is the Expansion and Contraction that creates healthy pranic flow within the mind, body, and heart.\'a0
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 The concept of Spanda provides the logic for applying the principles progressively when practicing the poses. The 5 main UPA\'92s begin with expansion and also end with expansion. Expansion is enabled and enhanced with contraction. Both energies must be present.\'a0
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa266\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs37\fsmilli18667 \cf0 The Focal Point- 
\f0\b0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Our practice of yoga is meant to take us to this place again and again until it becomes our home. This is the place where Muscular and Organic Energy meet, in a center we call the \'91Focal Point\'92 for the experience of the \'91place\'92 where the yogi instinctively finds his power.\'a0
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa266\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 When a pose is done with awareness of the appropriate Focal Point, the whole pose feels more integrated and whole, and the extension and expansive awareness by which the pose shines seems to radiate equally from all parts of the body.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 Which of these three Focal Points is the center of power in a given pose is determined according to which section of the body is the most weight bearing AND closest to the earth.\'a0
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa266\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs37\fsmilli18667 \cf0 The three possible Focal Points:
\f0\b0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \'a0
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa266\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 1. The Core of the Pelvis \'96 a point within the pelvis a few inches below the navel, in line with the bottom of the sacrum where the tailbone begins. \uc0\u8722  Active in standing and sitting poses, in which the pelvis is the most weight-bearing part of the pose.\'a0
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 2. The Bottom of the Heart \'96 where the heart rests on the top of the diaphragm in the core of the chest. \uc0\u8722  Active in Downward Facing Dog Pose and in most arm balances
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \'a03. The Center of the Upper Palate \uc0\u8722  Active in inverted poses, in which the head is part of the foundation, such as the headstand and shoulder stand.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa266\qc\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs74\fsmilli37333 \cf0 Principles of Refinement:\'a0
\f1\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa266\qc\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs48 \cf0 \'a0Focal Points, Spirals and Loops
\f1\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa266\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 The Focal Points
\f0\b0  are like vortexes of expansive energy created by the interweaving currents of the Loops, much like the chakras are spinning centers of energy created by the opposing currents of the ida and pingala nadis. The Focal Points are key points of overlap, from which this extension radiates.\'a0
\f1\fs24 \

\f2\b\fs29\fsmilli14667 The Spirals work primarily on the horizontal plane
\f0\b0  to govern healthy alignment and expansion at key points in the body \'96 expansion in the pelvis to create freedom of movement with stability for the hips and lower back, and expansion in the shoulder girdle to create freedom of movement with stability for the shoulders, neck and upper back.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa266\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 With expansion also comes extension through the work of the spirals, and it is around these key points in the torso \'96 at the Focal Points in the pelvis and in the heart \'96 that the Loops and Spirals overlap in their functions.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa266\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 The Loops
\f0\b0  
\f2\b work primarily along the vertical axis
\f0\b0  to govern extension through the core of the body. They describe the movements and flows of energy that interpenetrate and overlap to support and protect the joints while creating extension through the length of the body.\'a0
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa266\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 \'a0Please note: this document is an excerpt of Doug Keller\'92s Anusara Yoga Manual\'a0
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
}